hi this is press talker let's discuss
why group texts are annoying from a
mathematical perspective imagine you
want to invite three friends for dinner
you'll need to communicate the details
to each person in the group you could
send individual texts in which case you
would send a text to each person and
each person would reply to you this is a
total of six text messages sent within
the group an alternate way you could
organize the dinner is by sending a
group text in this case your message
would go to each person in the group and
then the first person reply would reply
to each person in the group the next
person would then reply to each person
and the last person would then reply to
each person so since everyone's sending
a message to each person that's 12
messages and this is why group texts are
annoying because they're more text to
communicate the same information in
general in general we can imagine
inviting end friends we can index this
as a set of 0 to n friends if you were
to organize it by individual text then
we can count the number of texts person
0 would send texts to each person in the
group and each of those people would
respond with the message back to 0 this
is a total of 2n texts that are sent
within the group if you organize it as a
group text then person 0 would send
group text which goes to each person in
the group the first person would reply
to each person in the group and so on so
that each person in the group is
replying since there are n plus 1 people
sending n messages that means there are
a total of N squared plus n texts that
are sent within the group we can graph
out how much more messages are needed
for the group text if you send an
individual text you would need 6 8 10 or
12 messages between 3 to 6 friends the
extra number of texts required for group
text are 6 4 3 12 4 4 24 5 & whopping 30
extra text if you have a group of
so in group text needs so many more text
messages why do people use it one answer
is game theory when you use individual
text it requires one person being the
initiator to send out those initial and
messages in a group text that one person
would just send out one group message
the other advantage is the group text
gives you group common knowledge in
general the groups are better off if
someone organizes the event but no one
wants to do that extra work I hope you
like this video please subscribe to my
channel you can support me on patreon
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
on Twitter at pressure Locker and you
can get my books on Amazon